[theme music playing]
[Kara]
My name's Kara Zor-El.
I'm from Krypton.
I'm a refugee on this planet.
I was sent to Earth
to protect my cousin.
But my pod got
knocked off course,
and by the time I got here,
my cousin had already grown up
and become Superman.
I hid who I really was
until one day,
when an accident forced me
to reveal myself to the world.
To most people, I'm a reporter
at CatCo Worldwide Media.
But in secret, I work
with my adopted sister
for the DEO to protect my city
from alien life
and anyone else
that means to cause it harm.
I am Supergirl!
[narrator]
Previously on Supergirl...
You do wanna have kids, right?
I've never seen myself
being a mom.
Is that okay?
No. Of course.
I'm going back to Mars.
There must be
other White Martians
who don't wanna be defined
by the hatred of our kind.
Good bye, Ms. Martian.
J'onn you must
come to Mars. Now.
Well, the loft looks great.
Now if we could just burn this,
then it would be perfect.
No, come on, it's adorable.
I don't know why
I thought throwing
a lesbian wedding shower
would curb Mom's cheesy antics.
Nope, gay, straight, whatever,
Eliza will not be stopped,
until she digs up
every bridal shower game
since the beginning of time.
You know what?
You're gonna love bridal bingo.
Kill me now, please.
How are you doing?
Fine. Great.
Alex.
What's going on with me
has nothing to do
with you and Maggie.
I could not be happier for you.
I know. It means a lot.
[knocking at door]
Oh! Eliza's early.
Okay.
Hi! Oh, J'onn.
Come on in. Is everything okay?
Yeah, yeah. Everything's great.
I just...
I just needed
to talk to you both.
I have to go away
for a few days.
I'm gonna need you both
to manage the DEO
until I get back.
Where are you going?
Mars.
Mars?
M'gann sent me a message.
She needs my help.
Help with what?
Message was short, urgent.
I tried to make contact,
but I couldn't reach her.
But I can sense
that she's in danger.
No, J'onn ,you're
the last Green Martian.
The Whites have been
trying to kill your kind
for centuries.
Going back would be
a suicide mission.
Look, M'gann came to our aid
when we were in need.
I must go for M'gann.
If you are going to Mars,
then Kara is going with you.
Yeah.
I won't have you
endanger your life
just to fight my battles.
Your battles
are my battles, J'onn.
I can't take you away
from Alex's shower.
[Alex] Are you kidding?
If I thought
that I could survive Mars,
then I'd be right there
fighting by your side.
J'onn, if Krypton still existed
and I had to go back
to where my parents
were buried, under rubble,
I know you wouldn't
let me do it alone.
[dramatic music playing]
Shouldn't we just call Winn
to fire up the transmat portal?
No, you can't transmat
planet to planet
without a gate
on the other side.
We'll have to get to Mars
the old fashioned way.
It's a cool car.
So, is this like an elevator
to a secret hangar
that'll... take us--
No, it isn't.
This is your ship?
Yup.
-We're taking this to Mars?
-Yes we are.
Okay.
[static on radio]
Careful with
the leather there, Supergirl.
Sorry.
There's no seat belt.
It's from a different era.
And a different planet.
I come from a race
of shapeshifters, Kara.
Why shouldn't our technology
shapeshift too?
Fair enough.
[engine revving]
[rock music playing]
[laughing]
Eliza, the lasagna
is incredible.
Alex and I order in so much,
I forgot
what real food tastes like.
Thank you.
It is the girls' favorite.
I'm just disappointed
Kara couldn't be here.
I know whatever she is doing
with J'onn is important, but...
I just, I do worry about her.
You know, it's been hard,
but she's working through it.
Well, this weekend
is about happy matters
of the heart.
And I did want
to make a bridal board
for you too, Maggie,
but, Alex said you have
no childhood pictures.
No.
If you don't mind my asking...
how long has it been since
you've talked to your parents?
Um, since I was 14.
You know what, Mom? Let's
just talk about something else.
No, no, Alex, it's okay.
Um...
I told a girl at school
that I liked her
and my parents found out.
I came home that day,
it was winter,
and my dad was there
with a suitcase,
and he told me
to get into the car.
And...
we drove in silence.
And I just stared
out the window
looking at the icicles
on the trees,
and I was terrified
to say anything,
but finally I said...
I said, " Papi ,
what did I do?"
And then he just looked at me
with such contempt...
and said, um...
"You shamed me."
And then he pulled up
to my aunt's house,
and left me with my suitcase.
That was the last thing
that my father said to me.
The only thing
shameful about that story
is how your father
treated you, Maggie.
Yeah, yeah.
[motor whirring]
[wind blowing]
[swishing]
[motor whirring]
[suspenseful music playing]
What now?
I think we're here.
M'gann.
J'onn, you came.
I wasn't sure that you would.
I'd do anything
for you, M'gann.
You know that.
Kara, you didn't have to--
You came when we needed you.
Till'all.
[growling]
If he's worried about the sight
of White Martians,
he came to the wrong planet.
[M'gann] Meet Till'all,
one of our best fighters,
but his bedside manner
could use some work.
And N'keyy, a new recruit.
It's an honor, J'onn J'onzz.
M'gann's told us about you,
how you inspired her
to rise up and--
[Till'all] Enough.
We've already wasted a day
trying to bring him here.
Wasted? We came all this way
to fight alongside you.
We didn't
bring you here to fight.
Silence, Till'all.
That's an order.
What's going on, M'gann?
We recently
stormed a White Martian base
near the D'ori'i crater.
There was a prison camp there
for Green Martians.
There were dozens of camps.
Well, this one
was still in operation.
How is that possible?
I'm the only
Green Martian left.
No.
There's another one.
I brought you here
because I didn't think
you'd believe me unless you
saw this for yourself.
J'onn?
Who is it?
It's my father.
It's him.
He's alive.
My wife, my daughters?
So they kept him
and only him alive
for hundreds of years? Why?
Myr'nn J'onzz
is the high religious leader
of the Green Martians.
Not even the worst
of the Whites
would kill the prime servant
of H'ronmeer.
Instead they sentenced him
to a fate worse than death.
Alone for centuries,
thinking he was the last
of his kind. Of his people!
Soon they'll all be dead.
We're running out of time.
What does he mean?
We believe your father
knows how to find
the Staff of Kolar.
-You can't be serious.
-Staff of what?
-Kolar.
-It's a myth, it's a parable.
My father used
to tell me stories about it.
"Be a good boy or H'ronmeer
will strike you down."
It isn't real.
It is, and the White Martians
have found out
where it's buried.
The staff of your god H'ronmeer
is a psychic weapon.
Which means that if
the Whites find it
they can track down
every resistance fighter
and kill us where we stand.
We'd be helpless.
We raided the base
hoping to find
the staff's location
but they had already moved on.
Your father
had been left behind.
They didn't realize
how valuable he'd be to us.
Valuable?
What are you talking about?
We believe he knows
where the Whites
are planning to dig.
[Kara]
Won't he tell you where it is?
He has closed his mind to us,
completely. We can't read it.
He is willing to let us die
and he calls himself
a man of God.
That man of God was tortured
for centuries by your people.
Then you understand
what is at stake.
If we don't find
the staff first,
our resistance is finished,
and then the monsters
who slaughtered your people
get this planet,
once and for all.
[M'gann] We need you to go
to your father, J'onn.
Convince him to help us,
and then we can save Mars.
Together.
[music increases in tempo]
You never told me
the whole story
about your dad and the car.
What's the point?
I wanna share everything
with you, Maggie.
I mean, the good and the bad.
I knew that he
was hard on you--
But before that day,
he was the best father.
I know he sounds
like a monster, but...
you just don't know
where he came from.
Well, it sounds like you
still really love him.
I don't know,
I am just saying that
he didn't have it easy.
Well, have you ever thought
about calling him?
Of course I have.
And?
My aunt told me that my mother
removed every picture of me
from the photo albums.
They erased me,
I don't need that.
Look, what your family
did to you
was incredibly hurtful,
but sometimes parents can do
really stupid things
when they are up
against something
they don't understand.
What if you invited
them to the shower?
Are you kidding?
Well, it's the perfect excuse
to reach out.
Yeah, right.
You kicked me out
because I'm gay, but, "Hey,
come to my gay shower."
It was a long time ago.
Maggie, the world has changed.
Maybe they have too.
I don't think so.
Babe, look, I love you.
Just please drop it.
Okay.
I'm praying. Leave me be.
I think that this time...
H'ronmeer will
allow you a moment
of personal indulgence.
It's me, Father.
It's J'onn.
You're angry with me...
for abandoning you...
as you should be.
I know how you must have felt,
alone all these years,
thinking you'd never
see another Green Martian,
thinking our entire family
had been destroyed.
You really thought such a trick
would work on me?
Father.
[exclaiming in annoyance]
I survived two centuries
of imprisonment
and torture... alone.
So, if you think exploiting
the form of my dead son
will break me, you are a fool.
I will never tell you
where the Staff of Kolar is.
Father, it's me, J'onn.
I lived.
I fled to Earth, I survived.
[laughing]
You give yourself away, White.
My son would never have fled.
[clicking]
[speaking in Spanish]
I'm living
in National City now.
[in Spanish]
I'm a cop.
I like it, it's good.
So, um, anyway,
I am calling because...
I'm getting married.
No, it's not a...
Her name is Alex.
Anyway, we are having a party.
A wedding shower, on Sunday
and, um...
You probably can't make it,
but I thought
maybe I would invite you.
See, I'd like it if you came.
[switching to Spanish]
Anyway, I hope
you and Mom are good.
[switching to Spanish]
Why did I do that?
I don't understand why
he couldn't sense me.
He couldn't see me.
He's been in prison
a long time.
He's probably used to tricks.
Enough of this. I'm going in.
You will not.
If the Green won't share
the information willingly,
we'll have to invoke
the right of Tyagar
and take it by force.
What's Tyagar?
It will allow him
to force through
my father's mental block
and show him
where the staff is.
Could that hurt him?
It could kill him.
-We don't have a choice.
-There's always a choice.
Our survival depends on
getting this information.
Is that all you care about?
Survival?
I swore to die fighting
for this resistance,
but I am not gonna die
standing here waiting.
You think you have
what it takes
to break my father's mind?
More powerful Martians
than you have tried, boy.
Enough. Till'all is right
about one thing.
If we don't find
the staff soon,
we're finished.
So you have to do this, J'onn.
You have to get through
to your father. can you?
I can.
And I will.
Good. So hurry.
Because time is running out.
You ever wonder, Kara,
what your parents
would say to you
if they could see you now,
after all this time?
What they'd think of the person
you've become?
Every day.
They'd be proud of me.
Yeah, I thought that too,
and I actually
got the chance to ask.
My father thinks I am a coward.
Then he doesn't know you.
'Cause the man I know
has dedicated his entire life
to making sure
what happened on Mars
never happens anywhere else.
So go in there, J'onn,
and show your father
who his son really is.
[speaking in Spanish]
Dad.
I wish you would have
called and told me
you were coming.
I would have picked you
up at the airport.
The bus was fine.
Is Mom...
No, your mother isn't coming.
She doesn't like to fly...
Oh, you don't have to explain.
Are you hungry?
We could grab a bite.
The party of yours is soon, no?
In a couple of hours,
but we have time.
I can wait.
I should probably check in
at the hotel.
-Okay.
-I think it's this way.
So...
-You're a homicide detective?
-Yeah.
Among other things.
That cold case you cracked
sounded very interesting.
The Martial murder.
You know about that?
Well, I'm an old man,
but I know how to Google.
I follow all your cases.
Tell me something.
For 18 years they didn't
have a single lead.
How did you solve that?
I went back to the
scene of the crime,
studied the ordinary details
everyone dismissed.
Like you taught me.
You used to say, "The key
to most mysteries
is in the mundane."
You remember that.
I remember everything
you taught me.
[whirring]
One thing I'll give you Whites,
you don't take no
for an answer.
As I told you before, Father,
I am not a White Martian.
Or even a Green Martian,
it seems.
It is the custom of my people
to take the shape
of our guests...
for your comfort
if not for my own.
[squelching]
[sighs]
I am well aware
of our Martian customs
and lore.
Mars was once a paradise.
But H'ronmeer
wanted to test his children,
Phobos and Deimos.
To be sure
they were worthy of it.
So he offered them two gifts.
A book of sacred symbols
on morals
that govern Martian life,
and the staff, a weapon.
The symbols could be shared
but the staff
wielded by only one.
Deimos chose the symbols.
Phobos chose the staff.
He was the first White Martian.
H'ronmeer was furious
that his son would choose
destruction over knowledge.
And so, Phobos was banished
to the underworld.
But his descendants
clawed their way back
and slaughtered my people.
Our people.
I am your son.
H'ronmeer buried the staff
for a reason.
The Whites disgraced his name
by slaughtering my people.
I will serve my God
by refusing
to let you use his staff
to slaughter each other too.
I'm sorry M'gann,
but I am doing this for us.
[grunting]
[dramatic music playing]
[electricity buzzing]
J'onn!
We need
to get out of here now.
I am not going anywhere
with you people.
Sadly, I don't think you have
much of a choice.
Where can we go?
Where is safe?
Home.
[door opens]
[footsteps approaching]
This was your home?
No.
It was mine.
How dare you?
-Father.
-How dare you bring me here?
It was one thing to take
my son's form
but to bring me back here,
to the place where your people
stole our lives from us.
I brought you here to prove it.
If I wasn't your son,
how would I know this place?
You've done...
what your people couldn't do
for over two centuries.
You've broken me.
So kill me if you want,
but until you do,
I will spend my final moments
praying for the ruins
of my slaughtered family.
[upbeat instrumental rock music
playing]
[indistinct chatter]
Everybody! Everybody,
it is... trivia time.
And Maggie,
you are in the hot seat.
Thank God.
-Have fun.
-Okay.
Don't get too comfortable,
Danvers. You're up next.
Doctor D, I got this.
All right.
Here we go. What is
Alex's... favorite color?
Blue.
What is Alex's favorite animal?
Uh, dog.
What is Alex's
favorite ice cream?
[woman]
Rocky road. Come on, man.
Oh. Mr. Rodas.
-Welcome.
-Hi.
I'm sorry, I didn't know
what to bring.
Oh, no, no. This is perfect.
Maggie loves Merlot.
Can I offer you a drink?
-Sure. Why not?
-Great.
-Thank you.
-Yeah, cheers.
Come in.
Now, you're talking.
Is this you here?
Oh...
[chuckles softly]
Yes, I don't know
why I thought overalls
were cute in middle school.
So, you are...
The woman I am going to marry.
Um, Papa,
meet Agent Alex Danvers.
-Federal agent?
-Yes, sir.
Margarita , there's no picture
of you up here.
No.
Here.
Thank you, Papa.
Yeah.
Danvers, you're up.
Oh.
Okay, why don't we
just open the mountain
of presents instead.
Okay.
-Hi, I am Eliza.
-Sorry, mom.
I'm the mom.
Why don't we start
with this one for Maggie?
Okay, thank you.
Okay.
Oh, I think I know
who this is from.
Alex, before I open this,
I want you to know
that you are the greatest gift
I could receive.
I love you.
[kisses]
[intense music playing]
Maggie.
You're just gonna walk out?
After all this time, that's it?
-I can't do this.
-Can't do what?
Tell me, please. What exactly
have I done that is
so offensive to you?
-You spit in my face.
-I spit in your face?
For loving somebody.
I can't, I don't understand.
I don't get it.
I came to this country
nine years old.
At eleven, I was
working in a factory.
-Yes, I know. Yeah.
-Do you?
Do you know
I was the only Mexicano
working alongside
a bunch of white boys?
Do you know that they
would wait for me
at night by the road,
and laugh and call me wetback,
and kick me
till my ribs were broken?
-Dad what does this
have to do--
-With you being a lesbian?
I worked...
to win their respect.
Those same boys,
when they grew up,
elected me their sheriff.
I endured for my children...
so that you would never have
to face that kind of hatred.
So that you would belong.
I am accepted for who I am.
The world is different now.
[laughs sarcastically]
They're building a wall
to keep us out
because in their minds,
we are nothing
but rapists and murderers.
The only thing they hate more
than a Mexicano
is a homosexual.
The world
is not different, my dear.
Look.
You can live
any way you please.
But don't ask me to witness it.
I'm...
I'm sorry
to interrupt your prayers
but I think it's important
that you hear me right now.
What is left to say?
Look at me.
I'm not a White Martian.
You can sense that, can't you?
You know it's true?
You're Kryptonian.
Yes, that's right.
I come from the dead planet.
I come from the dead people.
Just like you.
Krypton is gone.
But my world remains,
and every day for 200 years,
I have been forced
to remember the horror
of what happened to my people.
You're right.
There is no future for Mars.
Not for Green Martians, no.
But this is
bigger than you now.
This is about your faith.
What do you know of my God?
I heard you earlier.
H'ronmeer tests us.
This is a test.
You have a chance
to save your planet.
Not for your people, maybe,
but for another people
who want to do better
than those that came before.
I don't blame you
for not wanting to believe
that J'onn
is actually your son.
I don't blame you for not
wanting to open your mind
because if it weren't true--
It would be like losing him
all over again.
Yes.
Whether or not
you believe he is your son,
he wants to save Mars.
So please, Myr'nn,
open your mind
just a little bit.
Just give him a chance.
May I?
This is my favorite memory.
This is our home, Father.
I haven't thought about this
in a long time.
Can you see it?
I see it.
I remember it.
[kids chattering]
K'hym, T'ania.
My daughters.
Your granddaughters.
They're beautiful, J'onn.
They were
excited about something.
They were terrible
at keeping secrets.
What did they know?
That I had left worship early
to surprise J'onn.
K'hymm, T'ania.
Look at you two.
You're getting
much bigger, Kim.
T'ania,
give me that smile. Yes.
Does he know?
Daddy doesn't know, does he?
Did they tell you?
-You came.
-Yes, I did.
Happy birthday, my son.
Thank you, Father. Thank you.
Thank you for coming.
You falsely
kept a secret.
You kept a secret!
J'onn.
My son.
Father.
I missed you.
I'm so sorry
for not believing you.
I'm so sorry, J'onn.
I'm the one
that should be sorry.
How did you survive?
Why did you come back here?
The staff, Father. It's urgent.
There's still time.
No, there isn't.
But we need the staff.
Now.
I'm sorry, J'onn.
J'onn, it's okay.
The staff isn't far.
They're taking it to the hive
below the L'oren crater.
Let's go.
[growling]
[chanting]
["...Baby One More Time"
playing]
* Oh baby baby
* How was I supposed to know
Hi! Hi!
I'm, uh...
I'm sorry
to bother you during...
whatever it is you are doing.
But, I think I
took a wrong turn
at Albuquerque and...
Can any of you give me
directions back to Earth?
[growling]
You know,
I thought I took that tunnel
but my GPS is all screwed up
down here
and it keeps trying
to get me to make
this suicidal left turn.
[growling]
You might wanna
check your rear view.
[growling]
* Hit me baby one more time
[intense music playing]
[growling]
[groans]
[roaring]
[buzzing]
[groans]
[growling]
J'onn!
How did you know
which one was me?
I didn't.
[screeching]
Till'all?
[growling]
Supergirl. It's the staff!
[roaring]
This is for my people.
[panting]
[groans]
Good job, Supergirl.
[wincing]
-I'm sorry.
-It's okay.
Thank you.
This belongs
to the resistance now.
[applauding]
[cheering]
[chucking]
You found it.
Yes, and we stopped them.
J'onn.
H'ronmeer's staff, Father.
It's one thing
to dedicate your life to God,
it's another thing
to see God's grace in person.
So what happens to it now?
I suppose that's up to them.
Up to us?
I saw what the staff
did back there.
It's too powerful of a weapon
for either side to have.
Take it to Earth.
Bury it.
If we're gonna win this planet,
we have to be better
than our enemies.
I underestimated you.
And I you.
I don't suppose
that I can persuade you
to come back to Earth.
My fight is here.
The war is far from over.
We've come closer to victory
than ever before,
thanks to you.
I'll see you soon.
I hope that's true.
So, what about your father?
[Mr. Rodas] What are you
doing here?
[Sawyer] Came
to give you that back.
That little girl,
so desperate to win
her father's love.
You left her
on the side of the road.
And all these years,
I've been that little girl.
Yearning for my Papa
to come back for me.
Praying that one day
he would see me and love me
for who I am.
Thank you for coming
to the shower.
You gave me an amazing gift.
You showed me that I am
not that scared, little girl
in that picture anymore.
I'm an adult woman,
and I am happy in my own skin.
And I am so fortunate
that I am surrounded by people
who value and cherish me.
I finally understand
I don't need you
to see me or to get me
or to even like me.
I don't need anything from you.
I'm already good.
Goodbye, Papa.
You're all the family I need.
I'm happy for you.
And I am glad
that you're getting closure.
It's good for you.
And who knows?
It might make you
feel differently about things.
Do you mean kids?
Yeah.
Sweetie, my not wanting kids
has nothing to do
with my parents
or my childhood.
My feelings for you are deeper
than anything I've ever known.
I can picture
our life together.
And it's full and rich and...
amazing.
But there aren't kids
in that picture.
You're all that I need, Alex.
I guess you gotta let me know
if you feel the same way.
I do.
Of course I do.
[spaceship whirring]
[door closes]
Thank you, son.
[Myr'nn] So, this is Earth.
[Kara] This isn't
even the nice part.
[Myr'nn] I don't know,
I rather like it.
You know, I'm not sure I could
have done this without you.
Yes, you could have.
You're the strongest man
and Martian I've ever known,
and I was glad I could be there
to help you anyway.
I'll see you tomorrow.
You got it, boss.
Welcome to Earth, Mr. J'onzz,
you raised a good one.
Can everyone
on this planet do that?
No. She's special.
[Mr. Jonzz] So,
what do we do now?
We go home, Father.
We go home.
[theme music playing]